# CONWAY'S GAME OF LIFE. REAL-TIME GRID EDITOR

#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/qzZTVwcTpIA

#### Project website: http://gameoflife.agilecat.io/

#### Description:

Hello and welcome to the game of life real-time editor! The goal of this project is to make exploration of the game of life easy and interactive. A zero-player game devised by the British mathematician John Horton Conway in 1970 is a simple set of rules describing how the state of a two-dimensional array iterate in time. This evolution is determined just by the initial state of the grid. No further input is required. The output generated by the game of life can become immensely complex and undecidable, which has some deeper mathematical meaning. If it sounds abstract, don't worry. You can tinker around with the game of life editor with no prior knowledge. However, if you are curious about theory, there is more material about the topic on this page. And now, without further ado, let's jump into details of how the editor works.

To start, register an account. It will enable you to keep the progress of your explorations. Successful registration will take you to the main editor page. Here you can load most of the already discovered patterns published by the popular page about the topic. LifeWiki. You can also create an empty grid and generate the initial input yourself. If you need to change the grid size, you can expand or shrink it by the given number of rows and columns. You can also rotate the grid. When your input is ready, take a snapshot and give it a custom name. Now, you can start the automatic iteration and adjust the time interval to see how your own game of life evolves. There is also a translator of the patterns in the run-length encoded file format you can use. The project keeps evolving. If you're interested, feel welcome to become a contributor. I hope you have some fun learning and playing this zero-player game!

Technology Stack:
* ***Browser Client: Gatsby.js (React framework), JWT (access + refresh token), Apollo Client (websocket support)***
In the browser client user can:
  1. register/login
  2. edit and save the grid state
  3. iterate grid in adjustable pace
  4. edit gird while it is iterating (realtime)

* ***GraphQL server: YogaGraphql, JWT***
      Graphql server stores the most actual state of the users grid. It also checks if the subscription client has valid access token.
* ***API: HapiJS (Node.js), JWT***
Server computes the grid state and handles all database transactions (Sequelize ORM library). Server also registers and authenticates user.
* ***Databases: Postgres & Redis***
PostgresSQL stores patterns and user data. Redis is used to maintain logged-in users and could be used to revoke access if necessary.
